Hello everyone and welcome to this python tutorial.
In this video we are going to perform data analysis and validation with tens offload data validation
package.
We will talk about the concept of schema and what is its use for data analysis and generate some statistics
based on our training data.
In the previous video we use the described function to generate some statistics based on our training
data and test the data.
And that was cool.
But those statistics are relatively small.
We had the minimum standard deviation and some other column information but nothing more than that.
In contrast we had the training data and statistics generated by tensor flow data validation package.
Those statistics will describe the whole structure of the data set.
Firstly let us do that and afterwards we will explain why the concept of schema actually is let's write
trains that is equal to t of DV which is our tens of flow data validation package.
Then we will have to write dot generate and it is going to offer you a few things that you can choose
from.
We can generate statistics from CSB data frame and tell the flow record since we already loaded our
data set using Panda's library we are going to use that from data frame.
If you were to use directly on the CSC that we uploaded to our Google collab you can use that from the
CSP function here.
As we said we will select the data frame one and we can provide a few things to this function in our
case.
We only need to provide the data frame name besides the data frame you can provide number of jobs which
represents a number of processes that will run this function.
If you have the bigger data set you will should go for this.
For example if you had a CPO with four course you would specify four.
Under this argument and this function will utilize all four cores to faster process the whole dataset
let's provide the data frame to this function let's say data frame is equal to data set.
Execute a cell and it is going to generate some statistics for us those statistics that we generate
the right now are for example column information data information in everything we can compare our training
set to our new dataset now that we have our statistics it is time to generate our schema the concept
of schema is the most important concept in the tens offload data validation package it is going to contain
every single information about our training dataset and use that information to check our newly received
the data how good is it is there are some anomalies or differences based on that information it is going
to proceed further in the end to end pipeline the schema concept and object is going to contain information
such as column data types is the column numerical or categorical is the column is a must or there is
an option to be an absent then what is the distribution of that column is it normal distribution or
union from 1 and so on.
All of these statistics about the dataset are going to be incorporated in the schema and use that to
compare our training dataset to our newly received dataset and that's why we have to generate and create
our schema let's do this step type schema is equal to t of DV dot infers schema and then as you can
see there are few things that we need to provide.
The first one and the most important one for us is our statistics and that is our train stats that we
calculated in the previous step the next two arguments can be left as they are.
So we will see statistics is equal to train stats and executor so it is going to generate our schema.
For now we don't have any information what it looks like and what information it contains.
So let's use a function to display the schema the function that we are going to use for this is very
intuitive.
It is t v the display schema and this function takes only one argument and that is the schema that you
want to display.
As you can see to recognize all columns in our dataset the type of the column whether it is required
or not if this were categorical data it would be even recognized the domain of the data set and so on.
You can see that it contains every single information that we need to describe the data set and compare
it would receive the data and that's it for now in the next video we are going to generate our test
statistics if you have any questions or comments so far.
Please post them in the comments section otherwise the scene the next tutorial.